Foreword
========

Beside the Pleiades (PHR) and Cosmo-Skymed (CSK) systems developments
forming ORFEO, the dual and bilateral system (France - Italy) for Earth
Observation, the ORFEO Accompaniment Program was set up, to prepare,
accompany and promote the use and the exploitation of the images derived
from these sensors.

The creation of a preparatory program [1]_ is needed because of :

-  the new capabilities and performances of the ORFEO systems (optical
   and radar high resolution, access capability, data quality,
   possibility to acquire simultaneously in optic and radar),

-  the implied need of new methodological developments : new processing
   methods, or adaptation of existing methods,

-  the need to realise those new developments in very close cooperation
   with the final users for better integration of new products in their
   systems.

This program was initiated by CNES mid-2003 and will last until mid
2011. It consists in two parts, between which it is necessary to keep a
strong interaction :

-  A Thematic part,

-  A Methodological part.

The Thematic part covers a large range of applications (civil and
defence), and aims at specifying and validating value added products and
services required by end users. This part includes consideration about
products integration in the operational systems or processing chains. It
also includes a careful thought on intermediary structures to be
developed to help non-autonomous users. Lastly, this part aims at
raising future users awareness, through practical demonstrations and
validations.

The Methodological part objective is the definition and the development
of tools for the operational exploitation of the future submetric optic
and radar images (tridimensional aspects, changes detection, texture
analysis, pattern matching, optic radar complementarities). It is mainly
based on R&D studies and doctorate and post-doctorate researches.

In this context, CNES [2]_ decided to develop the *ORFEO ToolBox* (OTB),
a set of algorithms encapsulated in a software library. The goals of the
OTB is to capitalise a methological *savoir faire* in order to adopt an
incremental development approach aiming to efficiently exploit the
results obtained in the frame of methodological R&D studies.

All the developments are based on FLOSS (Free/Libre Open Source
Software) or existing CNES developments. OTB is distributed under the
CÃ©CILL licence,
http://www.cecill.info/licences/Licence_CeCILL_V2-en.html.

OTB is implemented in C++ and is mainly based on ITK [3]_ (Insight
Toolkit).

.. [1]
   http://smsc.cnes.fr/PLEIADES/A\_prog\_accomp.htm

.. [2]
   http://www.cnes.fr

.. [3]
   http://www.itk.org
